this recipe is from the original "Joy of Cooking". I believe it may no 
longer be present in the newer editions. Regardless, this is just for my 
quick reference. 

The 1.5x batch is good for me and my partner.. and [Kali][kali]. It's 
not gluten free and a lot of other things. And tends to be served 
decadently. That's what makes this so wonderful..

## ingredients

for a regular batch..

{{{
> ¾ cup all-purpose flour  
½ tsp salt  
1 tsp double-acting baking powder  
2 tbsp powdered sugar  
2 eggs  
⅔ cup milk  
⅓ cup water  
½ tsp lemon rind (or vanilla)  }}}

[ljust]for a 1.5x batch (no early morning pre-coffee thinking 
required)..

{{{
> 1⅛ cup all-purpose flour  
¾ tsp salt  
1½ tsp double-acting baking powder  
3 tbsp powdered sugar  
3 eggs  
1 cup milk  
½ cup water  
¾ tsp lemon rind (or vanilla)  
}}}

## preparation

sift the flour, then sift the flour again with the remaining dry 
ingredients into a bowl. Add the lemon rind (preferred). In a hurry?.. 
Skip the sifting.

Beat in the eggs with a whisk -- an initial effort to premix the 
ingredients. Not all the flour will mix and some will clump to the 
whisk. That's okay.

Then add the remaining wet ingredients including vanilla (if not using 
lemon rind). Whisk ingredients to mix loosely with a few turns in the 
bowl. Do not be concerned about getting the mixture smooth -- leave the 
lumps!

I often make the batter the evening before and let sit in the fridge 
over night, ready to go in the morning. I think letting the crepe 
mixture sit awhile, even in a morning prep, is best. But it's hard not 
to love no matter how you go about it.

Preheat a skillet over medium heat. When hot, add a few drops of oil and 
a small amount of the crepe mixture -- a soup ladle is useful here. 
Angle the skillet smoothly to spread out the batter but try not to let 
the skillet cool too much. When bubbles have penetrated the surface, 
flip the crepe to brown the other side. 

Remove and repeat with the remaining batter. If the skillet wasn't hot 
enough, it's not uncommon to have to toss that first crepe because it 
stuck to the pan.

Once done, roll whatever you fancy into the crepes. Fruit. Whip cream.. 
butter. A run of jam on the top. Yum!
