## ingredients

for 4 x 2 bowls or 8 servings (recipe can be halved)

{{{
> 2 cups du Puy lentils
^ ^   
1 tbsp. ginger -- chopped  
1 tsp. garlic -- chopped  
1 tsp. salt  
4 cups water  
^ ^   
2 tbsp. sunflower oil  
1 tsp. mustard seeds  
½ tsp. Hing (also known as "Asafoetida")  
2 bay leaves  
^ ^   
2 cups water  
1 tsp. tumeric  
1 tsp. cumin powder  
1 tsp. coriander powder  
¼ tsp. garam masala powder  
2 tsp. raw cane sugar  
1 tsp. salt  
1 tbsp. lemon or lime juice  
}}}

## preparation

6 minutes (using pressure cooker) to 25 minutes preparation time

{{{
> 2 cups du Puy lentils  
-- make certain the lentils are clean of any small stones to save your precious teeth! -- this varies with supplier  
-- wash and drain the lentils, if required  
^ ^   
1 tbsp. ginger  
1 tsp. garlic  
-- clean and finely chop ginger and garlic  
^ ^   
2 tbsp. sunflower oil  
1 tsp. mustard seeds  
½ tsp. Hing  
2 bay leaves  
-- heat oil in large deep saucepan and add mustard seeds  
-- when mustard seeds start to pop, stir in hing and bay leaf  
^ ^   
1 tsp. salt  
4 cups water  
-- add water and salt  
-- add the cleaned du Puy lentils with ginger and garlic until tender, 
about 10 minutes in a pressure cooker    
^ ^   
2 cups water  
-- after the pressure cooker has depressurized, add water  
-- bring to a boil  
^ ^   
1 tsp. tumeric  
1 tsp. cumin powder  
1 tsp. coriander powder  
¼ tsp. garam masala powder  
2 tsp. raw cane sugar  
1 tsp. salt  1 tbsp. lemon or lime juice  -- add all remaining spices  -- 
1 tbsp. lemon or lime juice  
-- add all remaining spices  
-- simmer the du Puy lentils for a few minutes more  
}}}

This recipe is very similar to the [green mung bean soup][] and just as 
healthy and nutritious. 

With poached eggs and lightly stir fried greens, it can be eaten as 
frequently as desired during a weight loss and conditioning regime, the 
key to which is **NO** carbs versus calorie counting. It works and is 
tasty. What more can you ask for?
