## ingredients

for 6 x 2 bowls or 12 servings (recipe can be halved)

{{{
> 2 cups green mung beans  
^ ^   
1 tbsp. ginger -- chopped  
1 tsp. garlic -- chopped  
1 tsp. salt  
4 cups water  
^ ^   
2 tbsp. sunflower oil  
1 tsp. mustard seeds  
½ tsp. Hing (also known as "Asafoetida")  
2 bay leaves  
^ ^   
4 cups water  
1 tsp. tumeric  
1 tsp. cumin powder  
1 tsp. coriander powder  
¼ tsp. garam masala powder  
2 tsp. raw cane sugar  
1 tsp. salt  
1 tbsp. lemon or lime juice  
}}}

## preparation

10 minutes (using pressure cooker) to 45 minutes preparation time

{{{
> 2 cups green mung beans  
-- soak mung beans overnight in water (6 to 8 hours)  
-- drain mung beans, wash them two times  
^ ^   
1 tbsp. ginger  
1 tsp. garlic  
-- clean and finely chop ginger and garlic  
1 tsp. salt  
4 cups water  
-- add water and salt  
-- cook mung beans with ginger and garlic until tender, 15 to 25 
 minutes (or 5 to 8 minutes in a pressure cooker)  
^ ^   
2 tbsp. sunflower oil  
1 tsp. mustard seeds  
½ tsp. Hing  
2 bay leaves  
-- heat oil in large deep saucepan and add mustard seeds  
-- when mustard seeds start to pop, stir in hing and bay leaf  
^ ^   
4 cups water  
-- place the cooked beans, including the cooked water, into the saucepan  
-- add water  
-- bring to a boil  
^ ^   
1 tsp. tumeric  
1 tsp. cumin powder  
1 tsp. coriander powder  
¼ tsp. garam masala powder  
2 tsp. raw cane sugar  
1 tsp. salt  
1 tbsp. lemon or lime juice  
-- add all remaining spices  
-- simmer the mung beans for a few minutes more  
}}}

## benefits of mung bean soup

in Ayurveda, Mung Bean Soup has a magical and powerful effect! It 
helps to balance all 3 doshas. Its spices are part of the medicinal 
quality of this delicious and nourishing soup.

When combined with certain sharp and penetrating herbs, the blocks 
created by Aama (toxic mucus that lodges in the body over time due to 
poor diet, lack of exercise and wrong lifestyle) are broken. In the same 
way that a gun is able to shoot through objects and break them, some 
herbs and spices have this effect. Mung bean Soup contains many of these 
spices.

## mung bean soup cleansing

it is beneficial to fast on Mung Bean Soup.

One can start, depending on the amount of Aam in the body, with 3-5 days 
of fasting only on Mung Bean Soup. Then add cooked vegetables, such as, 
pumpkins and squashes, and leafy greens for two days. Finally, add rice 
for the next two days. Then return to your normal diet.

You can also do Mung Bean Soup fasting for half a day after you have 
eaten something very heavy -- the social calendar can sometimes lead to 
this. Your next meal could be mung bean soup as, even that, is 
beneficial to give the body a rest and eliminate unwanted toxins.
