i cannot speak to Patricia's broader life because I arrived very late in 
hers. (Most of you have many personal Patricia stories, whereas, ours is 
rather singular).

Patricia and I knew each other casually for the better part of a decade, 
through the efforts of Tom Tomlinson and Abigail Szathmary, both 
remarkable healers. Unbeknownst to either of us, they were doing their 
best to have the fates bring us together. We'd be invited to dinner with 
them several times a year, never the wiser, no matter the interest we 
found in each other.

What they did not know about that very first dinner, was that as 
Patricia and I were waiting outside the restaurant while our gracious 
hosts were paying for the dinner, the very first thing I asked Patricia 
was..

--- Why is such a wholly desirable person such as yourself not in 
relationship?

To which she quickly replied..

--- Because no man would be able tolerate a relationship with me. My 
energy would be too much for anyone to put up with constantly.

That was the first glimpse I had of this force of nature that was 
Patricia Hayes. I heard her loud and clear. And so, for the better part 
of a decade, we danced to the invitations of Tom and Abigail.

It wasn't until late 2012 when Patricia began to feel something was 
seriously awry with her health that Tom suggested she consider working 
with me. And it was soon afterwards, at the invite of Tom and Abigail, 
that Patricia asked me whether we could work together.

We began that week with increasing frequency as the seriousness of her 
illness unfolded. Shortly thereafter, she was officially diagnosed with 
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma for the second time in her life. Thirty years 
earlier, Patricia decided she would have nothing of the 30% odds she had 
been given for surviving the disease.

But this time around, thirty years older, she knew that her walk would 
be vastly different. That the journey would require facing the very real 
spectre of her own mortality. But she was determined to meet life with 
grace and clarity.

When Patricia eventually began her chemo therapy regime, our work 
focused on supporting her through the demanding physical and emotional 
challenges ahead.

Yet, throughout it all, even during the most difficult times, Patricia 
maintained her "practices" which included sending Light and healing to 
others in need. Anyone she knew who required assistance, or who had 
relations and friends requiring such, ended up on her prayer list where 
they remained, even if they eventually passed on. Such was the boundless 
measure of Patricia's compassion and love.

As she quietly and courageously endured the rigors of chemo therapy, 
while convalescing at home between sessions, Patricia was often brought 
to tears by the outpouring of love and support she received from her 
community of friends and family who brought over hot meals and assisted 
her in every way they could. I reminded her..

--- This is reality showing You a reflection of Self.

Patricia was the embodiment of Love. And she made the hearts of all of 
us around her, bigger.

After a year of walking with Patricia in her illness and recovery, by 
2014 I figured my work was done. And that our relationship would resume 
its dinner by invitation course with Tom and Abigail. But on February 
2nd, after what had become our weekend afternoon movie ritual, Patricia 
turned to me and asked..

--- Do you think if we kissed it would spoil the amazing relationship we 
have?

This time, a decade after my original inquiry of Patricia, I replied..

--- It would be inappropriate for me in the healing relationship we 
have, but.. truth be told, I was going to wait a year until you were 
fully recovered.

Patricia, being one to seize the moment, asked her question again. To 
which she received her three favourite words from me..

--- Let's find out!

Both of us were thankful she didn't have to wait on me. 

After a year of walking and exploring uncertainty together, we stepped 
into a relationship that was as effortless as our next breath. And it 
remained so throughout our time together. Each moment a blessing we 
could never fully understand but filled with gratitude and joy.

We often reflected and laughed about that first dinner encounter 
a decade earlier. How the intersection of fates would give us a clear 
glimpse of each other. How we might have had that time. But each of us 
then had stories to complete. Neither of us ever dreamt that personal 
relationship would ever embrace us at this late stage in our lives.

But in the space beyond the personal narrative that allows for miracles, 
it did. And we were blessed with a movement that was profound with Love.

We were always cognizant of the preciousness of time we had remaining 
but always looked forward. And while we mused about creating shared 
experiences of travel when health would permit, the only thing that 
truly mattered was being present, with each other. Whether sitting in 
the garden, preparing food together, sharing a movie, or waiting 
countless hours in ER. Just knowing the other was in the next room. Each 
moment was complete because we had found each other and been granted the 
opportunity to share our love for one another.

Time with Patricia was a never ending source of joy and happiness. And 
her passing a reminder that my understanding is incomplete. And the 
depth of the grief and loss, the measure of the Blessing that she Is.

Patricia, my love, I love you with all my heart. You were, and will 
always remain, my wonder of wonders that holds the stars in the heavens.
