for breast cancer surgery, and the loss of a friend..

## the powders

are packets of lactose powder infused with..

- grief 30C, 200C, 1M, 10M
  - Natrum Muricaticum<br>
<br>
- surgery 30C, 200C, 1M
  - Arnica, shock
  - Staphysagria, victimization
  - Hypericum, nerve damage
  - Ledum, puncture/wound
  - Nux Vomica, medications/anesthesia
  - Phosphorus, anxiety (concerning death)
- shock/fear 30C, 200C, 1M
  - Arnica, shock
  - Opium, fear<br>
  <br>
- radiation 30C, 200C, 1M, 10M
  - Radium Bromatum
- surgery 200C, 1M, 10M
  - Arnica, shock
  - Staphysagria, victimization
  - Hypericum, nerve damage
  - Ledum, puncture/wound
  - Nux Vomica, medications/anesthesia
  - Phosphorus, anxiety (concerning death)
- shock/fear 200C, 1M, 10M
  - Arnica, shock
  - Opium, fear

[ljust]in ascending potencies of 30C, 200C, 1M and 10M, in reverse 
chronological order of timeline event.

Homeopathic powders have a crystalline property to "break up" or shatter 
the disease condition, hence, the sometimes strong healing reaction.

## support remedies

are provided in a packet of pellets, containing several remedies to be 
combined. Add these to a tincture bottle (with dropper)
filled with distilled water and succuss it against the palm of your hand 
till dissolved. Succuss the bottle before each usage..

- NSOL 1M
  - Natrum Muriaticum, grief
  - Staphysagria, victimization
  - Opium, fear
  - Lachesis, anger
  
[ljust]is an "informed" remedy and used as a general support remedy to 
take the "edge" off healing reactions. It may also be used generically 
to treat the vagaries of life.

Compared to powders, tinctures "lap" away to gently erode the condition 
being treated. As such, they can temper healing reactions.

## healing reaction

pay attention to your body and how you feel. It is not uncommon to 
experience a "healing reaction". This can come in the form of a physical 
sensation or emotional state related to the timeline incident being 
treated -- including what seems like a re-experience of the event 
itself. This is an "unwinding" of the event from your "field" (astral 
body).

If you experience a healing reaction, take a drop of the NSOL tincture 
you prepared under the tongue after succussing. You can also put a drop 
into a glass of water and sip throughout the day. Develop a relationship 
with the remedy -- it is not unlike an elemental. Feel free to take it 
in the morning and before going to bed to help establish this 
relationship. Play with it. (You may also use the NSOL for any 
"disturbance" not related to the timeline event.)

## protocol

when you feel the time is appropriate, take the first "powder". The  
complete treatment is numbered sequentially, starting from 1 to 
eliminate any confusion. Open the packet, careful not to spill the 
lactose powder, and scrape it off the paper with your front teeth. Let 
it dissolve in your mouth. (It is tasteless.)

Do not proceed with the second powder for at least 24 hours. It does not 
matter when you start, so long as your remember what time of day you 
took the last powder -- morning or evening is easiest to remember. 

Do not take the next powder until any healing reaction has completed -- 
no earlier than 24 hours after the last powder. It is not uncommon to 
take several days between each powder, even weeks.

Once you have completed a "set" of (three or four) powders for one 
timeline event, wait at least one week before proceeding with the next 
set of powders. Administer them similarly.

There are six sets in all to coincide with your recent loss, and the two 
cancer treatment cycles you participated in. Note: the timeline is 
treated in _reverse_ order, from the most recent time to the oldest or 
root/origin 
-- to unwind (release) the event history. That is why you will notice 
that the homeopathic potencies increase for the repeated events, and 
radiation occurs in the second round.

Let me know how it goes and if anything comes up..
