THIS IS THE LAST WILL ANT TESTAMENT of me, **STEVEN CARL HUM** of the 
City of Ottawa, in the Province of Ontario.

1. I HEREBY REVOKE all Wills, Codicils and testamentary dispositions of
every nature and kind by me heretofore made.

2. I NOMINATE, CONSTITUTE AND APPOINT my daughter, **MAAIKE HUM**, and
common-law partner, **PATRICIA ANN HAYES**, to be the Joint Estate 
Trustees of
this my Will, but if they should predecease me, or die within a period
of thirty days following my death, or without having proved this my
Will, or should be unwilling or unable to act as my Estate Trustee, then
I NOMINATE, CONSTITUTE AND APPOINT my children, **JEROEN HUM** and 
**LEONIE
HUM**, to be the Estate Trustees of this my Will in place of my said
appointees. I hereinafter refer to all of them, both of them or each of
them as the case may be from time to time as "my Trustee".

   PROVIDED THAT in construing the terms of this my Will the word 
   Trustee and the pronouns "he", "she", "it", or "they", "his", "its", 
   or "their", or "him", "her", "it", or "them" respectively, as the 
   number and the gender of the party or parties referred to in each 
   case require, and the number of the verb agreeing therewith shall be 
   construed as agreeing with the said word or pronoun so substituted.

3. I GIVE, DEVISE AND BEQUEATH the whole of my property, both real
and personal, of every nature and kind and wheresoever situate,
including any property over which I may have a general power of
appointment, to my Trustee, upon the following trusts:

   (a) TO PAY MY JUST DEBTS, funeral and testamentary expenses, all
   income taxes, estate, inheritance and succession duties or any other
   taxes, whatsoever payable;

   (b) TO PAY to my former spouse and mother of my children, JOHANNA
   HENRICA MARIA WENSINK, the sum of FIFTY THOUSAND ($50,000) DOLLARS 
   for her sole use absolutely.

   (c) TO PAY TO EACH OF MY CHILDREN alive at the date of my death the
   sum of FIVE THOUSAND ($5,000) DOLLARS, in memory of me for their sole
   use, as each in their own discretion may choose.

   (d) TO PAY to my common-law partner, PATRICIA HAYES, the sum of FIVE
   THOUSAND ($5,000) DOLLARS, in memory of me for her sole use 
   absolutely.
   
   (e) I direct my Trustee to pay the whole or such part of the net 
   income derived therefrom and any part or parts of the capital that my 
   Trustee deems advisable to or for the benefit of my said child or 
   children and common-law partner in such proportions as may be 
   necessary to carry out the provisions set out in paragraph 4 (a) and 
   4 (b) of this my Will. Any income not so used in any year shall be 
   added to the capital of the said residue of my estate and dealt with 
   as part thereof.
   
   I direct my Trustee as follows:
   
   (i) TO divide the residue of my estate into as many shares as there 
   are children of mine alive at the time of my death and to pay to each 
   child upon such child attaining the full age of Thirty (30) years, 
   (hereafter referred to as the date of division) one half of his or 
   her share, for his or her own use absolutely;
   
   (ii) TO keep invested the balance of his or her share until each 
   child has attained the age of Thirty Five (35) years. Any income not 
   so paid shall be added to the capital and shall devolve therewith;

   (iii) Upon each child attaining the age of Thirty Five (35) years, 
   I direct my Trustee to transfer to him or her the rest of the 
   remainder of his or her share for his or her own use absolutely;
   
   (iv) If any child of mine should predecease me leaving a child or 
   children of his or her own surviving, then the share to that deceased 
   child shall be paid or transferred to his or her surviving child or 
   children in equal shares upon per stirpes. If any child is not then 
   living and leaves no issue then living, the share of the residue of 
   my estate to which such child could have been entitled if living 
   shall be paid to the survivor of my children.
   
4. IT IS MY WISH that my Trustee apply the following guidelines in 
   administering my estate and in particular I direct my Trustee:

5. IF ANY PERSON should become entitled to any share of my estate
before attaining the age of majority, the share of each person shall be
held and kept invested by my Trustee and the income and capital or so
much thereof as my Trustee in his absolute discretion considers
necessary or advisable shall be used for the benefit of such person
until he or she attains the age of majority.

6. IN ADDITION to all other powers by this my Will and by any Codicil
hereto or by any statute or law conferred on him, my Trustee shall have
the same powers in administering the assets comprising my estate as I
would have if I were alive and the sole owner of such assets.

   Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing, my
   Trustee shall have the following specific powers:

   (a) I ask that they fulfill their responsibilities in a positive and
   co-operative manner to realize the maximum value of my Estate as 
   efficiently and expediently as possible.

   (b) If for any reason, one of my Trustees is required to provide in 
   an inordinate contribution of time, effort or loss of income in their 
   settlement of my Estate, I trust they will fairly reflect this in the 
   payment of any fees which they may receive for acting as Trustee.
   
   (c) To convert my assets into cash or to retain them in the form in 
   which they may be at my death;
   
   (d) To sell, lease, manage property and mortgage same or renew or 
   extend any mortgage on such terms as my Trustee considers advisable;
   
   (e) To invest in investments other than those authorized by law for 
   trustees;
   
   (f) To commute or prepay death taxes and duties;
   
   (g) For income tax purposes, to make allocations of estate income and 
   capital, to make elections and to take depreciation, make payments 
   deferrals, and to take such other steps as my Trustee considers 
   useful to preserve and maintain my estate to the benefit of my 
   beneficiaries consistent with the intent of the other provisions of 
   my Will;
   
   (h) To distribute the assets of my estate in whole or in part, in 
   specie rather than in money, and for this purpose to fix values to 
   items so distributed;
   
   (i) To manage and maintain the assets of my estate and to incur 
   reasonable costs of so doing, and to charge the same to my estate;
   
   (j) To exercise rights in respect of any firm or corporation in which 
   I have an interest or a share or shares;
   
   (k) I instruct my Trustees to seek the third party expertise and 
   assistance of:
   
   - "The POWER Program's" Estate Administration Assistance;

   - Mr. W. F. Tyler, C.A.;s financial reporting, income tax preparation 
     and supporting services;
     
   - Mr. Michael Pallett's investment experience;

   - Mr. Frank MacMillan's legal guidance;

   - Such other advice and assistance as may be appropriate to assist 
     them in carrying out their duties as Trustees.
     
   (l) MY TRUSTEES shall execute this, my last will and testament, and 
   all matters, responsibilities and requirements thereto solely by 
   unanimous agreement.
   
   In the event of disagreement of lack of unanimity, I encourage my 
   Trustees to seek the counsel of my advisors as per paragraph 5 (k) 
   above and, if then required, professional mediation.
   
   In utilizing any of the powers given in this section, I direct that 
   they be treated as administrative and investment powers only and 
   shall not be used to alter the distributive provisions in my Will, 
   but, apart from this limitation, I direct that these powers be 
   allowed a wide and generous interpretation rather than a narrow and 
   restricted one, and that my Trustee shall not be held responsible for 
   any loss that ma happen to my estate by reason of the exercise of 
   these powers.

7. It is my wish that my remains be cremated and, in lieu of 
   a traditional Wake and Funeral, I request a Memorial Service and 
   catered reception be held at a convenient time following my death.

8. ANY INCOME TAX triggered by my death on any RRSP'S, RRIF'S OR 
   UNEXPIRED ANNUITIES shall be paid out of such RRSP, RRIF OR ANNUITY 
   and shall not form a charge against the capital of my general estate. 
   The beneficiaries to receive all such RRSP'S, RRIF'S OR ANNUITIES 
   shall receive the NET AFTER TAX FUNDS. All taxes eligible upon the 
   disposition of such investments shall be paid out of the investment.
   
9. No gift under this my Will shall be assigned or anticipated or fall 
   into any community of property or partnership which may exists 
   between any beneficiary and his or her spouse and every such gift 
   shall remain the separate property of the beneficiary hereunder, free 
   from all material rights or controls by his or her spouse. In 
   particular, the value of all income the property or from property 
   into which such property can be traced, passing to a beneficiary who 
   is married at the time of my death, under the provisions of this my 
   Will, shall be excluded from such beneficiary's net family property 
   within the meaning of the Family Law Act, 1986, as amended from time 
   to time, for all purposes of that Act. This is an express statement 
   within the meaning of Section 4 (2) (ii) of the said Act.
   
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF I have to this my Last Will and Testament, written 
upon this and the preceding pages of paper, subscribed my name this 15th 
day of March, 2016.

SIGNED, PUBLISHED AND DECLARED by the said **STEVEN CARL HUM** as and 
for his Last Will and Testament, in the presence of us, both present at 
the same time, who at his request, in his presence, and in the presence 
of each other, have hereunto subscribed our names as witnesses.

<br>
<br>
STEVEN CARL HUM

<br>
<br>
FRANK E. MacMILLAN<br>
146 Richmond Road, Ottawa, ON

<br>
<br>
GAIL THOMPSON  Legal Assistant<br>
146 Richmond Road, Ottawa, ON



