photo processing in Linux with popular commercial tools is easily
accomplished by installing the applications in VirtualBox with their
OS. However, it is possible to run some Windows applications in Linux
using the Windows emulator
[Wine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_(software)). Some products
like Adobe
[Lightroom](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Photoshop_Lightroom)
are more problematic to run under Wine, but some plugins for
Lightroom can be -- and if one is willing to forego Lightroom for
Linux alternatives, there are several compelling options, such as
[digiKam](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DigiKam) and
[LightZone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LightZone).

Wine itself can be somewhat involved to setup Windows applications and
the necessary Windows library dependencies.
[PlayOnLinux](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PlayOnLinux) can simplify the
process considerably with its pre-installed common libraries.

## Installing Topaz

execute "playonlinux" and select "install a program", then "install a
non-listed program" to create a 32 bit "bottle" named "Topaz". The
initial application to be installed should be Topaz Fusion Express2
which is the manager for the individual Topaz products. Create a
"Topaz Fusion Express2" shortcut for it at the prompt.

Add the remaining Topaz applications by "updating an existing
application" ("install a program" may need to be selected twice to
display the "install a non-listed program" link) and selecting the
"Topaz" volume (do not create additional shortcuts as Topaz plugins are
opened via Topaz Fusion Express2). 

An error message complaining about a "noexec mounted filesystem"
may occur, depending on your specific Linux install. Ignore and press 
"next" to complete installation of the Windows application. The common 
Windows' dialogue popups should look familiar.

After all the Topaz applications are installed, open a terminal 
window and execute the following shell command to create the symbolic 
links (if the Topaz libraries are not found by the applications)..

`for i in  ~/.PlayOnLinux/wineprefix/Topaz/drive_c/Program\ Files/Common\ Files/Topaz\ Labs/*; do`
`^ ^ ln -svf "$i" ~/.PlayOnLinux/wineprefix/Topaz/drive_c/windows/system32/`
`done`

## digiKam and Topaz

open digiKam. Right click on any image and "open with", then "other", 
navigating to the "~/.PlayOnLinux/shortcuts/Topaz Fusion Express2" 
shortcut previously created. Check the "remember application" check 
box to place the shortcut on the drop down menu and you are good to 
go!

It may be necessary to run VirtualBox to have access to your complete
investment in commercial photo processing software. But it is more
direct to be able to run the powerful suite of Topaz applications
natively in Linux and manage your image library within Linux.
digiKam, as an open source project, is evolving rapidly and is an
impressive product in its own right -- worthy of a look if wish to work
in Linux.



