btrfs is not yet fully production ready, missing the auto repair 
functionality that most Linux users are familiar with other filesystems, 
such as, ext4. A kernel panic (not uncommon when tinkering with 
overclocking a system) can result in a number of (subsequent) "btrfs 
check" warning messages on the partition. These can be alarming but my 
experience thus far has been that these errors are benign.  

The errors I have encountered appear to be more problematic for root 
partitions, in that, I have not encountered this problem with non-root 
btrfs partitions (probably the luck of the draw that no disk writes were 
in progress).

## directory errors

_"unresolved ref dir #.. index #.. maxlen #.. name ... filetype #.. 
[errors](errors) #.., no dir item, no dir index"_ 

[ljust]can show up on a "btrfs check". It appears to be a benign 
message, as a scrub of the volume in question yields no errors. This 
condition can go undetected for a long time unless one routinely checks 
the boot volume after a system crash.

This has been repairable by mounting the volume -- "btrfs check" cannot 
be run on a mounted volume -- finding the file referenced by name (often 
one associated with a daemon or server process) and performing the 
following steps..

- backup the referenced file e.g. cp file file.save
- move the referenced file e.g. mv file file.tmp
- umount the partition
- run _"btrfs check /path"_
- run _"btrfs check --repair /path"_ if necessary
- run _"btrfs check /path"_ which should now be free of errors if all 
went well
- mount the filesystem
- restore file from file.save

## cache errors

_"cache and super generation don't match"_ 

[ljust]error is often produced after a "btrfs check --repair". It 
appears to be a benign error message and can be repaired (removed) by..

- changing "space_cache" to "clear_cache" in /etc/fstab
- rebooting and allowing for clear_cache to complete
- restoring "space_cache" in /etc/fstab
- rebooting
