is an unorthodox twist on the ergonomic finger [Curl 
mod](http://forum.colemak.com/viewtopic.php?pid=16151#p16151) introduced 
to the [Colemak mod-DH][colemak mod-dh] layout. It is a (personal) user 
refinement achieved on the Poker 2 keyboard by programming it to..

- Shift the upper rows of the keyboard above the 
**ZXC** row one key to the right. What this does, is allow the left hand 
 to curl its fingers for the bottom row keys (like the right hand) 
 instead of twisting the wrist
- Improve the left and right **Shift** key positions for 
each hand, as well as, the **Enter** key for the right
- Minimize pinky finger stretches. The right hand previously had 
numerous extended pinky stretches. These have largely been replaced with 
easier columnar left hand pinky stretches for less frequent symbols 
-- facilitated with the keyboard shift above
- Map the **Z**, **slash**, **Backspace** (CapsLock), **Del** and 
**Esc** keys (as a *nix and Vim user) to more convenient and easier to 
 reach key positions
- Maintain home row coverage of the central rows of the keyboard. 
Number row touch typing, unfortunately, remains an issue of practice -- 
not much can be done there to fix that!
- Arrange symbols into effective and visually aesthetic 
key groupings whilst retaining the most important aspects of the Colemak 
design. 

The left hand finger curl and improved **Shift** and **Enter** key 
positions are significant improvements over all other keyboard layouts 
IMO and the basis for this layout.

## alphamerics

while almost completely remapped for the Shift-DH mod as a result of the 
columnar right shift, retain their crucial Colemak fingering 
relationships..

| action           | setting |
| --               | --      |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| w                | q       |
| Pn               |         |
| e                | w       |
| Pn               |         |
| r                | f       |
| Pn               |         |
| t                | p       |
| Pn               |         |
| y                | b       |
| Pn               |         |
| u                | j       |
| Pn               |         |
| i                | l       |
| Pn               |         |
| o                | u       |
| Pn               |         |
| p                | y       |
| Pn               |         |
| s                | a       |
| Pn               |         |
| d                | r       |
| Pn               |         |
| f                | s       |
| Pn               |         |
| g                | t       |
| Pn               |         |
| h                | g       |
| Pn               |         |
| j                | m       |
| Pn               |         |
| k                | n       |
| Pn               |         |
| l                | e       |
| Pn               |         |
| ;                | i       |
| Pn               |         |
| '                | o       |
| Pn               |         |
| v                | d       |
| Pn               |         |
| b                | v       |
| Pn               |         |
| n                | z       |
| Pn               |         |
| m                | k       |
| Pn               |         |
| ,                | h       |
| Pn               |         |
| 2                | 1       |
| Pn               |         |
| 3                | 2       |
| Pn               |         |
| 4                | 3       |
| Pn               |         |
| 5                | 4       |
| Pn               |         |
| 6                | 5       |
| Pn               |         |
| 7                | 6       |
| Pn               |         |
| 8                | 7       |
| Pn               |         |
| 9                | 8       |
| Pn               |         |
| 0                | 9       |
| Pn               |         |
| -                | 0       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| Fn + right Shift |         |

[ljust]Refer to the [basic instructions][poker 2] on Poker 
2 programming.

The number row is right shifted to maintain its relative position to the home 
row. The **Z** key from the prior [Colemak mod-DH][colemak mod-dh] 
layout maps to the right shifted Qwerty B or **N** key position -- 
a design decision made contrary to the standard Colemak **ZXC** cluster 
imposition.

## function keys

**F1** to **F12** are right shifted to maintain their relative position to the 
 home row, matching the number positions..

| action           | setting | key |
| --               | --      | --  |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |     |
| Fn + 1           | Fn + =  | F12 |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 2           | Fn + 1  | F1  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 3           | Fn + 2  | F2  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 4           | Fn + 3  | F3  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 5           | Fn + 4  | F4  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 6           | Fn + 5  | F5  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 7           | Fn + 6  | F6  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 8           | Fn + 7  | F7  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 9           | Fn + 8  | F8  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + 0           | Fn + 9  | F9  |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + -           | Fn + 0  | F10 |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + =           | Fn + -  | F11 |
| Pn               |         |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |     |
| Fn + right Shift |         |     |

[ljust]The **Fn + Backspace** key is part of the [GuiFn navigation 
cluster][poker 2#guifn] and remains, therefore, assigned to **PgUp** 
instead of **F12**.

## symbols

in the standard Colemak layout are largely (save for the **semicolon**) 
unchanged from their Qwerty positions. The right shift resulting from 
the Curl mod, however, impacts the 
**apostrophe**, **slash** and **square brackets**. The published mod-DH 
 layout maps the **square brackets** to the left hand so the 
 **apostrophe** can be mapped to the right square bracket. 
 
 Taking liberties with the special symbols and borrowing (loosely) 
 a page from the
[Dvorak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dvorak_Simplified_Keyboard) layout, the 
**square brackets** are mapped, instead, to the number row and the 
 **minus** and **equal** (see [shift mod][colemak curlicue#shift-mod] 
  below) signs to the left hand. Aesthetically, the 
  **square brackets** remain as a cluster pair, located conveniently 
   next to the **parentheses**. More importantly, the **hyphen** and 
   **question mark** are now easily reached from the home row.

 | action           | setting  | key |
 | --               | --       | --  |
 | Fn + right Ctrl  |          |     |
 | q                | -        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | [                | ;        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | ]                | '        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | a                | /        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | .                | ,        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | /                | .        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | Esc              | Fn + Esc | `~  |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | 1                | =        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | =                | [        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | Backspace        | ]        |     |
 | Pn               |          |     |
 | Fn + right Ctrl  |          |     |
 | Fn + right Shift |          |     |

The **backslash** is moved to the opposite quadrant of the keyboard from 
its [previous location][poker + vim] to accommodate the 
**square brackets**.

## shift mod

the most contentious decision in this layout is to map the 
**backslash** sign to the 
**left Shift** and the **Shift** to the Qwerty
**Z** curl position! 

This is a clear deviation from the Colemak design -- well, pretty much 
every keyboard layout design! -- and, Microsoft and Apple users will 
prefer to retain the 
 **Shift** and 
 **ZXC** key cluster and map the **backslash**, instead, to the Qwerty 
  **N** (confusing, I know)!

 | action           | setting     | key |
 | --               | --          | --  |
 | Fn + right Ctrl  |             |     |
 | right Shift      | \           |     |
 | Pn               |             |     |
 | Z                | right Shift |     |
 | Pn               |             |     |
 | Fn + right Ctrl  |             |     |
 | Fn + right Shift |             |     |

What this does is allow the left hand pinkie to curl for the **left Shift** 
instead of extending laterally and downwards with a twist of the wrist. In the 
old Qwerty layout it was the right pinkie that did so for the **right Shift** 
-- which is now rectified by this Shift-DH mod. 
 
This simple but unorthodox assignment accomplishes what the Colemak
[Wide mod](http://forum.colemak.com/viewtopic.php?id=839) attempts to 
rectify (among other things), albeit, with a swap of the **Shift** key 
itself. The difficulty itself lies in the strangeness (visually) of 
using such a diminutive Shift key. But the fingers do not lie!

## capslock

in the standard Colemak layout is the handy **Backspace** key. Mapping 
the (CapsLock) **Backspace** to the (unused by me) **right Alt** allows 
the 
**Esc** key to be more conveniently mapped to the **CapsLock** and 
 restores the [previously remapped][poker + vim] **Tab** key..

| action           | setting        | key |
| --               | --             |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |     |
| Tab              | Esc            |     |
| Pn               |                |     |
| CapsLock         | Tab            |     |
| Pn               |                |     |
| right Alt        | Backspace      |     |
| Pn               |                |     |
| \                | Fn + Backspace | Del |
| Pn               |                |     |
| right Ctrl       | left Ctrl      |     |
| Pn               |                |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |     |
| Fn + right Shift |                |     |

[ljust]Note: the **Tab** key is restored to its default value and the 
**right Ctrl** no longer needs to be mapped to 
**grave/tilde**, a common practice with 60% keyboards. It is not simply 
 restored to its default value because Dip Switch 2 on the Poker 2, if 
 enabled, assigns 
 **grave/tilde** to it instead of 
 **Ctrl**.
 
## numeric keypad

while not part of the Colemak specification, a numeric keypad is defined 
for left hand data entry via the **Fn** key. A nice to have add-on to 
a 60% keyboard..

| action           | setting   | key |
| --               | --        |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |           |     |
| Fn + Esc         | Shift + 6 | ^   |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + Tab         | Shift + 8 | *   |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + q           | 7         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + w           | 8         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + e           | 9         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + a           | 4         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + s           | 5         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + d           | 6         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + Shift       | 0         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + z           | 1         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + x           | 2         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + c           | 3         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + Alt         | .         |     |
| Pn               |           |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |           |     |
| Fn + right Shift |           |     |

The **equal**, **minus** and **slash** keys map to the same region, somewhat 
conveniently (although, the **Fn** key must be released).

## guifn

see [Poker 2 GuiFn][poker 2#guifn]..

| action           | setting        | navigation |
| --               | --             |            |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |            |
| Fn + ;           | Fn + a         | Right      |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + '           | Fn + s         | Down       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + Enter       | Fn + d         | Left       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + [           | Fn + w         | Up         |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + p           | Fn + ;         | Home       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + ]           | Fn + ,         | End        |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + Backspace   | Fn + '         | PgUp       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + \           | Fn + /         | PgDn       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + /           | Fn + Backspace | Del        |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |            |
| Fn + right Shift |                |            |

## ergo layout

with all the above mappings together, whew!

[ljust]with **Fn + right Shift** enabled..

<code>    `~  = 1 2 3 4 5 6   7 8 9 0 [  ]</code>
`^    Esc  - Q W F P B   J L U Y ; '  Del`
`^     Tab  / A R S T G   M N E I O  Enter`
`^    \  Shift X C D V Z   K H , .  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Backspace  Fn  Pn  Ctrl</code>

[ljust]with **Fn** (thumb) held down..

<code>     ^^  F12 F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 F6   F7 F8 F9 F10 F11  PgUp</code>
`^      *  7 8 9 R T Y   U I O Home Up End  PgDn`
`CapsLock  4 5 6 F G H   J K L Left Down  Right`
`^        0  1 2 3 V B N   M , . /  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  .    Space    Alt  Fn  Pn  Ctrl</code>

[ljust]with **Pn** held down..

`^   Esc  1 2 3 4 5   6 7 8 9 0 - =  Backspace`
`^    Tab  Q W E R T   Y U I O P [ ]  \`
`CapsLock  A S D F G   H J K L ; '  Enter`
`^    Shift  Z X C V B   N M , . /  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Alt  Fn  Pn  `~</code>

[ljust]Refer to the [GuiFn][poker 2#guifn] guide for the navigation 
cluster assignments.

The hand symmetry (bottom row finger curl) introduced by this layout, 
specifically to the left hand, improves the ergonomics of the standard 
keyboard significantly. Left hand wrist strain is noticeably absent 
(even if unnoticed before). And the **Shift** keys are now balanced.

This Colemak inspired variant is easily implemented on the Fn layer of the 
Poker 2 programmable keyboard. OS dependent software can also accomplish the 
same result, albeit, with the incumbent issues of propagating the solution to 
every computer necessary.

Not as radical (or expensive) as hardware ergonomic keyboard solutions
-- such as, the [Ergo Dox](http://ergodox.org/) and 
 [Kinesys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinesis_(keyboard)) split 
 keyboards and [SafeType](http://safetype.com/index.php) vertical 
 keyboard -- this Poker 2 Curl mod implements an ergonomic layout on 
 a standard keyboard with all the benefits, portability and geekiness 
 a 60% mechanical keyboard can provide! 
