i have lost count of all the keyboards that I have owned and used.  Ones 
I remember..

- IBM Model-M with buckling springs
- numerous Logitech rubber dome keyboards
- Microsoft keyboards including the MS Ergonomic 
series (which are very comfortable to type on but, unfortunately, use 
rubber dome keyswitches)
- Apple Alps keyswitch and wireless chicklet keyboards
- Matias Tactile Pro with Alps keyswitches

As much as I like the MS ergonomic keyboard designs, there is something 
about the tactile feel and "clack" of mechanical keys derived from 
a long affair with manual and electric typewriters, hammering out 
Gestetner copy for high school publications aeons ago. Today, it's the 
traditional rectangular desktop keyboard -- with the [Colemak][colemak] 
keymap layout -- that I pound away on.

## majestouch 1

the keyboard I have had for a very long time is the 
[tenkeyless](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Tenkeyless_keyboard) Filco 
[Majestouch 
1](http://deskthority.net/review-f45/filco-majestouch-2-tenkeyless-t1088.html) 
with [Cherry MX Blue](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Cherry_MX_Blue) 
mechanical switches.

The Cherry Blues are notoriously loud when the keystrokes are bottomed 
out on the plate of this hefty keyboard -- music to my ears and fine for 
solitary writing. But if you press lightly without bottoming out the 
keys, you can hear the subtle click of the keyswitch, characteristic of 
the Blues. Most of the noise is created at the end of the downstroke 
where the vector meets the keyboard plate. 

## o-rings

enter O-rings. I finally got around to taking an hour to clean the 
keyboard and install these [O-ring 
dampeners](http://www.wasdkeyboards.com/index.php/products/keyboard-accessories/cherry-mx-rubber-o-ring-switch-dampeners-125pcs.html). 

They cushion the bottom of the keystroke, pamper your fingers and wrist, 
and leave the MX Blues with just their distinctive "click". As well, the 
0.4mm O-rings shorten the keystroke to just beyond the key's activation 
point (where the key registers with the computer), further enhancing the 
responsiveness of the keyboard.

It is like getting a new and even better (subjectively) keyboard for 
a pittance -- though, if you like bottoming out your keys, it might not 
be your cup of tea. YMMV with other O-ring thicknesses and hardnesses, 
and Cherry switch types but the right combo can transform your typing 
experience.

## audio emulation

audible feedback is not just limited to the mechanical sounds produced 
by the keyboard switches themselves. Keystrokes can be augmented by 
software. While this may sound excessive, applications like 
[qwertickle](https://github.com/aitjcize/Qwertickle) can enhance the 
typing experience by furthering the "typewriter" illusion -- obviously, 
my ingrained fondness of typewriters makes this so.

[bspwm][] can easily be configured to toggle qwertickle to turn 
typewriter sounds off and on, as well as, volume. The sounds through 
computer speakers elicit a relaxing rhythm to writing, distinguishing 
printable characters from space bar, return key and backspace -- only 
with all the advantages of a word processing editor! 

The aural interaction with the physical key strokes alters ones 
perception, making the typing feel more tactile in a pleasing and softer 
way. All an illusion, of course. But a delight for the fingers to dance 
to.

## poker 2

is a [60% keyboard](http://deskthority.net/wiki/60%25) devoid of 
separate function and cursor control keys, making it look diminuative 
and smaller than it actually is -- the keycaps are still full size. 
Function key combinations provide the complete keyset which, at first 
glance, would appear to be a disadvantage. 

However, once the finger memory is established, it is actually, IMO, 
a more efficient keyboard to type on. Your hands stay on the home row 
without requiring shifting the hands to the top or right to strike the 
function row or navigation cluster. In addition, the keyboard is 
[programmable][poker 2] to customize the layout and function of the keys 
(Colemak layout in this case) providing endless possibilies. Plus, the 
mouse, when required (and seldomly with a tiling window manager) is 
closer to the keyboard for easy access.

With ultra light linear Cherry Red key switches -- models are available 
with the complete range of Cherry key switches --
and O-rings (0.2mm red) installed, the [Poker 
2](http://imagehost.vendio.com/a/35122654/aview/POKER2-1.jpg) is a joy 
to type on with a completely different feel to the Cherry Blue Filco. 
And the desk has never looked so spacious!

## tex aluminium case

the stock ABS Poker 2 case tilts the keyboard in the conventional manner 
(back to front) but my preference is for a flat, if not inverted tilt. 
Adding a [green Tex aluminium 
case](http://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=616) 
levels out the keyboard, lowers it and adds mass, as well as, 
a beautiful anodized finish. Fix a pair of small vinyl bumpers to the 
front of the case and you have a negative tilting keyboard!

Adding between the keyboard plate/PCB and aluminium base, a run of 
pliable Weather Shield [Crack 
Seal](http://www.homehardware.ca/en/rec/index.htm/Hardware/Builders/Weatherstrip/Miscellaneous/Brown-Crackseal-Weatherstripping/_/N-2pqfZ67l/Ne-67n/Ntk-All_EN/R-I2393056?Ntt=crack+seal) 
dampens key vibration, as well as, further adding mass to the keyboard. 

Seat a 1/2" (three strands) wide strip between each of the grooved 
aisles. Aside from the USB and dip switch case cutouts and screw posts, 
notch the front Crack Seal piece under the space bar to accommodate the 
small protruding surface mounted component on the PCB (for ease of flush 
mounting the PCB to the Crack Seal).

Add a layer of tissue paper or thin plastic wrap between the Crack Seal 
and the PCB to make future disassembly easy -- otherwise, the keyboard 
assembly will need to be pried carefully from the tacky Crack Seal. The 
easiest way to do so, in this case, is to gently pry up one of the sides 
with a tape wrapped jewelers screwdriver (to prevent marring the 
anodized finish), then run a credit card around the edges of the 
keyboard plate to separate the PCB from the Crack Seal.

Together, the Tex case and Crack Seal, elevate the feel of the Poker 
2 keyboard considerably. If you prefer the tilt of the original ABS 
case, one could line it with Crack Seal, with extra layers to 
accommodate the keyboard case depth -- to similarly dampen and weight 
it, and save some serious change!

This combo has ended my keyboard search. For now..
