intel based macbook pro's make good Linux laptops. But some 
configuration is required to tune their installation.

## fan control

out of the box, Linux Macbooks tend to run their CPU fans rather 
incessantly -- it is not a subtle sound. To better sync the fan to CPU 
utilization, install *mbpfan-git* from the Archlinux AUR (or similar), 
then..

`sudo modprobe applesmc`
`sudo modprobe coretemp`
`echo applesmc | sudo tee /etc/modules-load.d/applesmc.conf`
`echo coretemp | sudo tee /etc/modules-load.d/coretemp.conf`
`sudo systemctl enable mbpfan`
`sudo systemctl start mbpfan`

Macbook Pro's run notoriously hot. You don't want to run them on your 
lap unless you are facing a winter chill. Fan control doesn't alleviate 
this characteristic of Macbooks but it does minimize the annoyance of an 
unnecessarily full throttled fan.

## touchpad

to restore rudimentary touchpad gestures, install the 
*xf86-input-synaptics* package. Then configure the Xorg file 
*/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/60-synaptics.conf* with..

`Section "InputClass"`
`^    Identifier "touchpad catchall"`
`^    Driver "synaptics"`
`^    MatchIsTouchpad "on"`
`^    MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"`
`^    Option "SHMConfig" "on"`
`^    Option "TapButton1" "1"`
`^    Option "TapButton2" "3"`
`^    Option "TapButton3" "2"`
`^    Option "PalmDetect" "on"`
`^    Option "VertEdgeScroll" "off"`
`^    Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "off"`
`^    Option "CornerCoasting" "off"`
`^    Option "EdgeMotionUseAlways" "off"`
`EndSection`

This provides 2 finger scrolling and button tapping gestures.

## startup chime and grub

by default, macbooks power up with a very distinctive chime sound, then 
perform an EFI boot sequence which results in a significant delay before 
the legacy *GRUB* boot loader is found to load Linux (if you install 
Linux the most common way without using the EFI). 

If you find the startup chime annoying and want to run stealth, on boot 
up, press **&lt;Option-Command-P-R&gt;** to reset the firmware (if 
necessary). Then, using the OSX install disk, boot up while pressing the 
**C** key to load the OSX installer and open a utilities *terminal* 
window.

Enter the following to suppress the startup chime and avoid the default 
EFI loader delay..

`nvram SystemAudioVolume=%80`
`bless --device /dev/disk0s2 --setboot --legacy`

[ljust]In my case, I allocated a swap partition in /dev/disk0s1, hence, 
GRUB will be found in /dev/disk0s2.

