[rubber o-ring][keyboards#o-rings] dampeners with clickety [Cherry MX 
Blue](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Cherry_MX_Blue) switches improved the 
typing experience on the Filco Majestouch significantly, by mitigating the bottoming 
out of the keystroke, whilst shaving a hair off the keystroke travel.

[Cherry MX Red](http://deskthority.net/wiki/Cherry_MX_Red) switches on 
the [Poker 2][poker 2] are linear switches with no tactile actuation 
point. They are silky smooth and have the lightest activation sensitivity 
which can be trying to type on if one rests the fingers heavily on the 
keys. But if you can develop a light touch, Cherry MX Reds let your 
fingers type effortlessly.

Having no tactile actuation point like the Cherry MX Blues, it is very 
easy to bottom out the Reds. O-rings applied to the keycaps provide..

- Dampening of the key at the bottom of the keystroke, cushioning the 
finger
- Reduction of the key travel
- Subtle key return "bounce" back, if you bottom out
- Silencing of keyboard plate ringing caused by bottoming out

It is possible to develop a very light touch on the Cherry MX 
Reds, rhythmically dancing over the keys without bottoming out when one 
is in the typing "zone". Shortening the key travel distance helps 
cultivate the muscle memory and finger sensitivity. Conversely, O-rings also make mashing the keys 
quicker for those who like bottoming out the keys as they type.

The improved finger motions of the [Colemak Curl][colemak curl-shift] 
mods inevitably brought attention to the mechanical action of they 
keyboard itself. With a set of thick "blue" and thin "red" O-rings, the 
Poker 2 layout can be finger tuned..

## key travel

(max) no O-rings &nbsp;>&nbsp; **red** &nbsp;>&nbsp; **blue** &nbsp;>&nbsp; **red + red** 
&nbsp;>&nbsp; **blue + red** (min)

[ljust](double) "red + red" O-rings: character set..

<code>    <span class='brown'>`~  = 1 2 3 4 5 6   7 8 9 0 [  ]</span></code>
<code>    Tab  <span class='brown'>- Q W F P B   J L U Y ; '</span>  Del</code>
<code>     Esc  <span class='brown'>/ A R S T G   M N E I O</span>  Enter</code>
<code>    <span class='brown'>\</span>  Shift <span class='brown'>X C D V Z   K H , .</span>  Shift</code>
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Backspace  Fn  Pn  Ctrl</code>

[ljust](combined) "blue + red" O-rings: pinky modifiers..

<code>    `~  = 1 2 3 4 5 6   7 8 9 0 [  ]</code>
<code>    <span class='brown'>Tab</span>  - Q W F P B   J L U Y ; '  <span class='brown'>Del</span></code>
<code>     <span class='brown'>Esc</span>  / A R S T G   M N E I O  <span class='brown'>Enter</span></code>
<code>    \  <span class='brown'>Shift</span> X C D V Z   K H , .  <span class='brown'>Shift</span></code>
<code><span class='brown'>Ctrl</span>  Win  Alt    Space    Backspace  Fn  Pn  <span class='brown'>Ctrl</span></code>

[ljust](single) "blue" O-rings: dampened thumb keys (in inverted 
position, except **Pn**)..

<code>    `~  = 1 2 3 4 5 6   7 8 9 0 [  ]</code>
<code>    Tab  - Q W F P B   J L U Y ; '  Del</code>
<code>     Esc  / A R S T G   M N E I O  Enter</code>
<code>    \  Shift X C D V Z   K H , .  Shift</code>
<code>Ctrl  <span class='brown'>Win  Alt    Space    Backspace  Fn  Pn</span>  Ctrl</code>

The key travel is shortened for the keys requiring finger reaches and 
slight hand movement -- I have smallish hands. Larger hands may prefer 
single or double "red" O-rings all around. The modifier keys -- 
**Shift** and **Ctrl** -- benefit especially from the shortened key 
 travel because they are held down -- which is tricky to sustain at the 
 actuation point without bottoming out -- rather than struck.

Not everyone likes O-rings. Some like mashing the keys to the bottom 
plate and the sound it produces. For myself, the ergonomic Colemak Curl 
mod with tuned key travel and a practiced light touch make for 
effortless and quiet typing -- though, I sometimes augment the 
experience with software generated 
[typewriter sounds][keyboards#audio-emulation]! 

## keyboard slope

the final ergonomic tweak is to alter the keyboard tilt to a [negative 
slope](http://ergo.human.cornell.edu/AHTutorials/typingposture.html). 

Most keyboards have a positive slope or forward tilt. Some, like the 
[Tex aluminium case][keyboards#tex-aluminium-case] for the Poker 2, 
also have a flat position. The Tex case can be fitted with four tiny 
rubber domed feet to provide a low profile, making the keyboard appear 
to hover over the desk 
-- quite eye catching!

However, placing the large rubber domed feet (which would normally be 
applied to the back) to the front of the keyboard case, imparts a slight 
negative slope or backward tilt. This allows for a much more relaxed 
wrist angle position (with the keyboard on a tray at the proper height). 
Comfort over looks! (it doesn't really look that odd, the angle being 
slight, but enough to be effective).

This keyboard will be connected to every computer I use from here on in. 
And the new "[Cherry][cherry profile]" profile keycaps on the way, with 
their lower profile, should refine the typing experience even more!
