configuration of the Pn layer allows mapping keyboard and function key 
combinations to provide the shortcuts necessary to emulate a full 104 
key keyboard. Such a setup allows typing with minimal hand movement and 
actually, IMO, is more efficient to use!

## initial setup

the [Colemak][colemak] keyboard layout uses the **CapsLock** as 
a **backspace** key. Also, moving the *nix common **grave**/**tilde** to 
its own key avoids the otherwise necessary **Fn + Esc** key combination. 
To do so..

| action             | setting   | key |
| --                 | --        |     |
| Power              | off       |     |
| Dip Switches 1,3,4 | off       |     |
| Dip Switch 2       | on        |     |
| Power              | on        |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl    |           |     |
| Caps Lock          | Backspace |     |
| Pn                 |           |     |
| Right Ctrl         | Fn + Esc  | `~  |
| Pn                 |           |     |
| Fn + right Ctrl    |           |     |
| Fn + right Shift   |           |     |


Dip switch 2 moves the **grave**/**tilde** to the **right Ctrl** which 
is convenient for frequent usage. However, the **right Ctrl** also needs 
to programmed for the Pn layer, hence, the assignment of **Fn + Esc** to 
the 
**right Ctrl**. 

The **Fn + right Ctrl** key combination initiates and terminates programming 
mode. The single **Pn** key action stores the defined mapping. The **Fn + right 
Shift** enables the Pn layer permanently so you do not need to press **Pn** key 
to invoke the new mappings.

## colemak

is easy enough to obtain in Linux via the keymap settings. Then the 
qwerty keyboard layout is mapped to Colemak. But you can easily 
configure the Pn layer to convert the Poker 2 into a Colemak keyboard so 
it can be used with any computer as such..

| action           | setting |
| --               | --      |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| e                | f       |
| Pn               |         |
| r                | p       |
| Pn               |         |
| t                | g       |
| Pn               |         |
| y                | j       |
| Pn               |         |
| u                | l       |
| Pn               |         |
| i                | u       |
| Pn               |         |
| o                | y       |
| Pn               |         |
| p                | ;       |
| Pn               |         |
| s                | r       |
| Pn               |         |
| d                | s       |
| Pn               |         |
| f                | t       |
| Pn               |         |
| g                | d       |
| Pn               |         |
| j                | n       |
| Pn               |         |
| k                | e       |
| Pn               |         |
| l                | i       |
| Pn               |         |
| ;                | o       |
| Pn               |         |
| n                | k       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| Fn + right Shift |         |

[ljust]and you now have a Colemak keyboard enabled. Any layout can be defined!

## left fn key

a left hand **Fn** key can be useful for the upper F-key ranges, other Pn layer 
programming, and avoiding awkward **Fn** key combinations and finger stretches 
with the **Shift**, **Ctrl**, **Win** (Super), and **Alt** keys.

Not surprisingly, the Poker 2 can assign a left hand **Fn** key. Dip 
switch 3 turned on turns the **Win** key into a left hand **Fn** key, 
but then the **Win** key needs to be mapped elsewhere (the **right Alt** 
key is an option) or is lost. A solution is to map the **Fn** key to the 
**CapsLock**, preserving the 
**Win** key (position). To do so..

| action           | setting  |
| --               | --       |
| Power            | off      |
| Dip Switches 2-4 | off      |
| Dip Switch 1     | on       |
| Power            | on       |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |          |
| Win              | CapsLock |
| Pn               |          |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |          |
| Power            | off      |
| Dip Switch 2-3   | on       |
| Power            | on       |
| Fn + right Shift |          |

Done! Dip switch 3 enables the **left Fn** key, normally to the **Win** 
key, but since the **Win** key is mapped to the **CapsLock**, the **left 
Fn** is now the **CapsLock** and the **Win** key remains a **Win** key. 
Whew!

Doing so loses the **CapsLock** as a **backspace** key above, something 
which, as a Colemak user, I have come to appreciate -- especially with 
all the inadvertent key presses while acclimating to new ultra light 
linear Cherry Red key switches! 

## guifn

enter the [GuiFn](https://geekhack.org/index.php?topic=57723.0)
function key layout which eliminates the need for a left hand **Fn** key.

GuiFn implements a right hand (activated with thumb on the **Fn** key) 
navigation key cluster which is, IMO, more effective than the split left hand 
**Fn + WASD** cursor layout 
-- that gamers are used to -- and right hand **Fn 
 + Home**/**End**/**PgUp**/**PgDn** (assigned to the semi-colon, period, quote 
 and slash) keys. 

In fact, once your muscle memory is established, it is quicker to use than the 
dedicated navigation control cluster of a tenkeyless or full keyboard. To 
configure the Pn layer..

| action           | setting        | navigation |
| --               | --             |            |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |            |
| Fn + ;           | Fn + a         | Right      |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + '           | Fn + s         | Down       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + Enter       | Fn + d         | Left       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + [           | Fn + w         | Up         |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + p           | Fn + ;         | Home       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + ]           | Fn + ,         | End        |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + Backspace   | Fn + '         | PgUp       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + \           | Fn + /         | PgDn       |
| Pn               |                |            |
| Fn + /           | Fn + Backspace | Del        |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |                |            |
| Fn + right Shift |                |            |

Flip the **Fn** key around so it slopes downward (the "Fn" legend will be 
upside down) as this will feel more natural to the thumb and can be located by 
feel. 

Now the Poker 2 is really beginning to feel customized (just need to add 
an anodized milled [aluminium base][keyboards#tex-aluminium-case]!)..

## the layouts

with **Fn + right Shift** enabled..

`^    Esc  1 2 3 4 5   6 7 8 9 0 - =  Backspace`
`^     Tab  Q W F P G   J L U Y ; [ ]  \`
`Backspace  A R S T D   H N E I O '  Enter`
`^     Shift  Z X C V B   K M , . /  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Alt  Fn  Pn  `~</code>

[ljust]with **Fn** (thumb) held down..

`^   Esc  F1 F2 F3 F4 F5   F6 F7 F8 F9 F10 F11 F12  PgUp`
`^    Tab  Q W E R T   Y U I O Home Up End  PgDn`
`CapsLock  A S D F G   H J K L Left Down  Right`
`^    Shift  Z X C V B   N M , . /  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Alt  Fn  Pn  `~</code>

[ljust]with **Pn** held down..

`^   Esc  1 2 3 4 5   6 7 8 9 0 - =  Backspace`
`^    Tab  Q W E R T   Y U I O P [ ]  \`
`CapsLock  A S D F G   H J K L ; '  Enter`
`^    Shift  Z X C V B   N M , . /  Shift`
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Alt  Fn  Pn  `~</code>

For completeness, all remaining default Poker 2 Fn keys can be 
programmed to be indifferent to the **Fn** key to allow modifiers on 
those keys to work even if the **Fn** key is held down..

| action           | setting |
| --               | --      |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| Fn + w           | w       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + a           | a       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + s           | s       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + d           | d       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + z           | z       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + x           | x       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + c           | c       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + v           | v       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + b           | b       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + r           | r       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + y           | y       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + f           | f       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + g           | g       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + h           | h       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + n           | n       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + m           | m       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + ,           | ,       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + .           | .       |
| Pn               |         |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |         |
| Fn + right Shift |         |

The possibilities are endless with the programmable function layer of 
the Poker 2. You can easily roll your own..

