favouring my index finger over the middle finger, I have now been toying 
with the bottom row of my [Colemak Shift-DH][colemak shift-dh] layout, 
swapping the **C** and **V** keys of that layout. The original Qwerty 
**ZXCV** cluster which Colemak considered sacrosanct is now completely 
 gone -- with little impact to this *nix user -- but the keys still 
 conveniently remain in the left hand bottom row. Hence, the simple 
 [Shift-mod layout][shift-mod layout] reference, as the number of 
 deviations from the original Colemak design probably now preclude 
 continuing to call it a Colemak variation, though its pedigree is still 
 visible.

All of this came about as a result of the Colemak Shift-DH curl 
modification which made me more conscious of fingering. Curling the 
fingers was a significant mechanical improvement over the (ingrained but 
slight) left wrist twist required of the standard Colemak (and classical 
Qwerty touch typing) layout. 
 
Keyboard [layout 
analysis](http://colemakmods.github.io/mod-dh/analyze.html) typically 
weights bottom row middle finger curl slightly higher (better) than 
index finger reach -- and, when I type with "proper" hand positioning, 
this seems to bear out the preference. However, with the [Cherry profile][cherry profile] keycaps and MX Red 
keyswitches, lately I have been floating my hands flatter than usual 
which allows pressing the keys without bottoming out -- which is tricky 
with these light linear key switches -- something I have been 
experimenting with. This reverses the above finger ratings (for me). So 
YMMV. 

The flatter hand position favours the greater strength of the index 
finger on the bottom row over curling the middle finger -- arguably 
a good reason not to do this! Swapping the more frequent **C** with 
**V** improves (for me) the left hand finger movement.

## bottom row

programming of the Poker 2..

| action           | setting     |
| --               | --          |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |             |
| right Shift      | \           |
| Pn               |             |
| Z                | right Shift |
| Pn               |             |
| c                | v           |
| Pn               |             |
| v                | d           |
| Pn               |             |
| b                | c           |
| Pn               |             |
| n                | z           |
| Pn               |             |
| m                | k           |
| Pn               |             |
| ,                | h           |
| Pn               |             |
| .                | ,           |
| Pn               |             |
| /                | .           |
| Pn               |             |
| Fn + right Ctrl  |             |
| Fn + right Shift |             |


## shift-mod layout

with **Fn + right Shift** enabled..

<code>    <span class='brown'>`~  = 1 2 3 4 5 6   7 8 9 0 [  ]</span></code>
<code>    Esc  <span class='brown'>- Q W F P B   J L U Y ; '</span>  Del</code>
<code>     Tab  <span class='brown'>/ A R S T G   M N E I O</span>  Enter</code>
<code>    <span class='brown'>\</span>  Shift <span class='brown'>X V D C Z   K H , .</span>  Shift</code>
<code>Ctrl  Win  Alt    Space    Backspace  Fn  Pn Ctrl</code>

Stronger middle finger typists would probably not benefit from this. 
But, so far, it _feels_ like a worthwhile improvement with the flatter 
hand positioning and **C**'s higher frequency of usage in the English 
language. 

At the end of the day, ergonomics is about what works mechanically for 
the individual. Time will tell whether I stick with this or whether, as 
I continue to acclimate to the left hand curl, the middle finger 
strengthens enough to make this **CV** swap redundant!

## epilogue

in the end, the [Colemak Shift-DH layout][colemak shift-dh] won out. 
While the **CV** swap was easy enough to adapt to, the (Shift-mod) 
letter frequency and (Shift-DH) bigram combinations cancelled each other 
out, so the **C** and **V** have been restored to their former 
positions.. to be more Colemak like. Finger rolls beat out marginal 
finger strength advantages in this case.

