a few words about comments to this site are in order, as the mechanism 
is somewhat unique. 

Unlike most schemes deployed on the internet which attempt to thwart 
spammers by requiring site registration and logins, or 
[CATPCHA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAPTCHA) input, this site 
utilizes email filtering. By doing so, you can use your favourite email 
client to compose your thoughts without need to register or go cross 
eyed.

Also note, comments are not posted to the web site in real time. Expect 
some delay for your comment to show up until the automated comment 
processing is more rigorously tested.

The aim is to make commenting as painless as possible so that you can 
participate on this site. Through the use of multiple spam filtering 
layers, the garbage that afflicts many a site is avoided. As well, 
trolls can be blacklisted and their incoming emails discarded -- not 
that I expect this site to inflame such discussion.

As well, you can rest assured that your contact information is safe. 
Email addresses and contact information are not retained on the web 
server, nor are they used for any purpose. Signatures following the 
standard double dash delimiter are automatically deleted from 
correspondence and, address and phone number information, is masked out 
by the server side application.
 
From time to time, the application may need to be enhanced to more 
accurately filter out contact information which may have inadvertently 
escaped filtering. A note to the 
[webmaster][mailto:webmaster@thedarnedestthing.com] can expedite the 
necessary correction. Corrections to content will be reflected on the 
site once adjustments are made to the filtering mechanism.
