probably not a good sign! but a few words are in order to explain the 
purpose and organization of this site so that you can navigate it 
effectively. 

The site's primary purpose is to shed light on the [awakening][] 
process. As such, it is organized into threads, whose links are found in 
the menu at the top of the page under the site name. Beyond that, the 
site as a whole is non-linear.

From left to right in descending relevance, so to speak, are..

- [the story][], the central theme of awakening and its domain
- [truth or die][], a personal exploration of the awakening process,
  information and tools
- [shadows and light][], images and words
- [colophon][], this site design, technical and historical -- not really in
  direct alignment with the primary objectives but is included as a
  homage to the internet and all the meta content it contains about
  itself

Each thread heading is prefaced with a poem, quote, image or thought -- 
that will change on occasion -- and has its own [about][] link similar 
to this [start here][welcome] to further explain and describe the 
central theme of its content. The most current articles are listed in 
full on the main thread pages, with a list of remaining titles in 
chronological order at the bottom. Amended or expanded articles may 
recur on a thread page on subsequent visits.

When a page is opened, the next chronological title is listed beneath 
the article, hence, the threading beyond which, there is no further 
significance.  [Comments][comments], which I encourage you to submit -- 
which are secure -- are also toggled on and off from the individual 
pages.

Additional menu items are..

- [recent][], a preview of recently updated or added titles. A preview of
  [recent comments][] can be accessed from the [home][the darnedest 
  thing#recent
  comments] page
- [date][], a list of titles by authoring date
- [index][], an alphabetic index of titles
- [services][], [body shamanics][] offerings
- [contact][], how to get in touch

That, in short, is the lay of the land -- use the various indexes for 
perusing subject headings or simply start somewhere and follow the 
links. Click on titles, and dates or use the [search][searching this 
site] field. Like any journey, you are free to navigate and explore the 
landscape as you please.

