hola! Welcome to [[the darnedest thing]]!

It is a strange notion to entertain a place amongst the collective 
voices of the internet. Largely because there really is nothing to add 
that hasn't been expounded upon on the net, in books and transmissions 
throughout the ages. It has all been said before.  We all share this 
journey. Travel the course of our lives which, though individual, bind 
us all.

It is a journey of awakening. Through all the possible expressions of 
our uniqueness. None more or less than another -- though we may think 
so. Our stories are premised on the notion of being somehow placed shy 
of some idea we have of completeness -- of being separate. When, in 
fact, nothing could be further from the truth.

For first time visitors, [[this site]] link provides an overview of the 
site structure and how to explore it. 

This site is about the ending of suffering. The suffering which the 
story experiences in conflict with reality it does not agree with. All 
of this resistance comes to an end, when the mind realizes all its 
thoughts are assumptions it constantly makes, in the projection of 
itself.

As such, it is written in words (of course). And, as a result, can be 
mistaken for having an authority it should not. It is not because it is 
true or false, but because the story constantly seeks authority it 
believes it does not have. That must be outside itself -- as a story 
separate from everything else. 

Words. They are charged with the meaning and the history we have behind 
them. When we read them, we tend to give them authority. Largely because 
words are thoughts transcribed, and we are addicted to our own thoughts. 

Nothing in this site should be taken as true. It is for you to determine 
the truth or falseness of it. That is yours for the taking.

For clients, I hope [[the darnedest thing]] can shed some light on your 
personal journeys. This site is far from complete -- be patient. If you 
have stumbled upon this site, I hope you find something timely and come 
back, even if your interest is purely technical. So..

{{{
> look  
around,turn  
over  
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ the  
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ stones and see  
^ ^ ^ ^ what you  
will
}}}

