this handout describes some invaluable tools for Lightworkers.

## the principle of asking

by Universal Law, no higher-dimensional being can intercede or assist 
you unless you request it. Develop the habit of asking for assistance, 
information and guidance.

## “grace it and get on with it!”

Grace is a Divine force that allows a complete break with the past and 
a fresh start in each Now-moment. Grace Elohim holds the energies of 
Divine joy, forgiveness, gratitude and celebration. She looks like 
iridescent snow and immediately intercedes if you ask her to. Because of 
the Universal Law that “The Universe recreates itself according to your 
pictures of reality”, we encourage people not to process, but instead 
“Grace it and get on with it”.

## invocation to light

{{{
> I live within the Light. I love within the Light.  
I laugh within the Light.  
I AM sustained and nourished by the Light.  
I joyously serve the Light.  
For I AM the Light.  
I AM the Light. I AM the Light. I AM. I AM. I AM.
}}}

## invocation to water

{{{
> I take this, the Water of Life.  
I declare it the Water of Light.  
As I bring it within my body,  
It allows my body to glow.  
I take this, the Water of Light.  
I declare it the Water of God.  
I AM a Master in all that I AM. 
}}}

## the violet flame

St. Germain, Lord of the Violet Ray, offers the violet flame of 
transmutation for dealing with low frequency energy you wish to remove 
from your fields. Use it whenever you are dropping density of any kind 
or when you encounter low frequency energy in your environment. Do it 
several times a day if necessary.

For personal use, visualize the violet flame of transmutation (mixed 
with the Silver Ray of Grace to form a beautiful iridescent violet). 
Then see it pouring into your physical body and filling every cell. Then 
bring it through your emotional, mental and spiritual bodies separately.

To clean a space, such as your office or home, see the violet flames 
rising up from the floor, consuming all low frequency energy. Pay 
particular attention to cleaning your bed when you get up in the 
morning.

## spiritual hygiene

use sea salt and the Violet Flame, mixed with Grace, to clean your 
fields. Place sea salt and invoke the rays into your bath water. Wash 
your clothes and bed-linens with a handful of sea salt to remove 
energetic residue. Because you do most of your clearing in your sleep, 
call in the above rays to transmute the old energies as you make your 
bed. You’ll feel so much better.

## grounding up

imagine a thick line of Light beginning at your Omega chakra extending 
upwards through your spine and on upwards to the eleventh chakra. Ground 
into the vastness of your Spirit, not the planet — she’s mutating too. 
Allow your Spirit to stabilize you.

## toning

toning is a technology and language for the multi-dimensional 
transmission of Light, color, motion and geometries. Toning breaks up 
dysfunctional patterns, transmutes lifetimes of karma, infuses patterns 
and feels GOOD!

## invocation to the unified chakra

see the “[Unified Chakra Invocation][unified chakra invocation]”

## protection

to protect your fields against unwanted intrusion by detrimental 
energies, use the following three-step process at least morning and 
evening, and whenever you feel like extra protection, such as at work or 
on the freeway:

1. After you’ve unified your chakras and created the unified field, 
cover the outside of the field with gold mesh. State that the gold mesh 
will let only love and Light in and out.

2. Call on the Legions of Michael, the Destroyer Angels and Circle 
Security to lay in a triple protective grid.

3. Ask the Destroyer Angels to spin out any detrimental energies from 
your fields.

## synchronize your fields

your various energy bodies rotate at very particular rates and the rates 
of spin are usually harmonics and subharmonics of each other, such as 
11, 22, 33 and 44. When one of your fields begins to spin off its normal 
rate, you may feel dizzy.

Unify your chakras to the tenth and try to sense the spin of each field 
in turn. One field may feel faster or slower, or just not right. Use 
your intent and vary the speed of this field, sensing the effect until 
you feel that your fields are in synch again. If you have trouble with 
this, just ask Spirit to do it for you.

There are many other causes of dizziness, of course, so see a physician 
if the symptom persists. This explanation is neither a medical diagnosis 
or a recommendation for treatment.

## boogie busting

feel any resistance, fear, anger, neediness, cravings, obsessions, or 
addictions, especially when you are trying to work with Spirit? Then 
you’ve probably got “boogies”. These are usually astral critters, either 
camping out with you because they are attracted by your Light or because 
you invited them in a long time ago to keep you limited and human.

To remove them, first call on your friends on the fifth dimension and 
above: Archangels Ariel, Azrael and Aru-kiri, Polaria, Lord Michael and 
anyone else you wish. Ask for and visualize Lord Michael sending a tube 
of Light from the fifth dimension to around your energy bodies. Then 
say:

{{{
> “I release all agreements, both conscious and unconscious, with any 
detrimental entity, astral entity or boogie. Please go into the Light. 
Now!”
}}}

Make it fun. Put them on roller-skates or throw a bon voyage party. You 
are assisting a brother or sister to go home.

Thank the boogie for its work in keeping you limited and tell it that 
the limitation is no longer appropriate. Then ask it to go up the Light 
tube. Be firm. If you feel resistance, demand that the boogie stand in 
front of you and tell you what it wants from you. It may be just 
recognition, or it may need reassurance that it has served its purpose 
well. Get increasingly firm that it must leave, shouting out loud if 
necessary. Feel your energy bodies. Do they feel lighter everywhere or 
is there still a heaviness or pain anywhere? If you still feel heavy, 
consult a professional “boogie-buster”.

When you feel lighter everywhere, begin to tone. This will release the 
last remaining energy and help them up to the fifth dimension. Then ask 
Lord Michael to collapse the tube away from your bodies into the fifth 
dimension.

## channeling

we encourage everyone to learn to channel. This allows you to get your 
own multi-dimensional information, keeps you in constant contact with 
a wider perspective and breaks down reliance on outside authority. 
Besides, it’s ecstatic and fun!

## superconscious

this technique was brought in by Earth Mission and is very effective in 
changing pictures of reality.

{{{
> “Superconscious, by the force of Grace, will you manifest the essence 
of the effect and performance, and embodiment of the highest possibility 
of ____________, so that the power of this can be manifest in my 
experience. By the force of Grace and by the decree of Victory. And so 
it is!”
}}}
