[lock] by eighth and ninth levels of Lightbody, the pituitary gland is 
producing lots of growth hormone. It is growing from the size of a pea 
to about the size of an English walnut. There can be a possible adverse 
reaction between the growth hormone and the estrogen levels in women’s 
bodies. The symptoms of this hormonal imbalance are: extreme fatigue, 
extreme depression, suicidal thoughts and feelings, and feeling cut off 
from everyone and everything. This imbalance occurs in most women in 
ninth level Lightbody. If a woman has had a whole or partial 
hysterectomy, it will usually occur in eighth level. Fortunately it is 
easily corrected.

## hormonal balancing, head only

This is sufficient 80% of the time. The woman wakes up the next morning 
feeling like a new person.

1. With both hands, hold the third eye and fourth eye.

2. Create triangulations of energy. Third eye to the base of the skull 
on the large tendon on either side of the neck.

3. Fourth eye to the edge of the jaw bone, on both sides.

4. Press pituitary points on the top of the skull, either side of the
center seam. Pituitaries to the third eye.

5. Pituitaries to fourth eye.

6. Pituitaries to top of chin.

7. Pituitaries to center base of skull.

## hormone balancing, whole body

If the woman doesn’t feel better by the next morning, do this one. 
Sometimes the imbalance has gone too far and whole body adjustment is 
necessary.

1. Hold third eye and fourth eye.

2. Third eye to sacrum, both sides.

3. Fourth eye to above hip bones, both sides.

4. Hold pituitary points.

5. Pituitaries to third eye.

6. Pituitaries to fourth eye.

7. Pituitaries to pubic bone.

8. Pituitaries to coccyx.

