astral entities can intrude on our fields. Whether conscious or 
unconscious, we make agreements with them when we have moments of fear 
or need.

These entities will attach themselves to us, usually promising some 
aspect of comfort in exchange for living vicariously through us. These 
exchanges are almost never worth it, as the astral entity is just as 
subject to distortion and the illusion of polarity as are beings of the 
3rd Dimension. 

They often feed on addictions of various types, be they for substances 
or people. Some enjoy anger and violence, and will spur arguments and 
feed off karmic situations, adding to the intensity of the karma. 
Sometimes, relationships between people are actually relationships 
between the entities attached to them.

It is always of benefit to release these beings into the Light, so that 
they can move on to their next stage of development and you can be free 
of their influence.

## field entity release

the Entity Release is a good practice in any "Spiritual Hygiene" 
program. Some people do the Release on a regular basis, just to be sure 
no entities have "sneaked" into their fields. You can only release any 
agreements that you yourself have with these entities. You cannot 
release agreements for other people.

Call for assistance.

{{{class=="quote"
> "Archangel Michael, please bring down the tunnel of Light.
> Ariel, Azrael and Aru-Kiri, please assist. 
>
> "I break any and all agreements or contracts, both conscious and 
unconscious, that I have made, anyone in my body has made, or anyone in 
my genetic lineage has made, with any astral entities, thought forms, 
demons, dark forces, elementals, aliens or boogies. Please go into the 
tunnel, we will take you home."
}}}{:.nodent}

From the moment you begin an entity release, assume that feelings or 
thoughts may not be your own. Boredom, spaciness, resistance, "this 
stuff never works", anger, aches and pains, and grief may all be coming 
from entities. Identify them and send them on with:

{{{class="quote"
> "Entity holding resistance: go into the Light!"
}}}

Toning is very helpful to ease their release. When you feel clear or 
lighter, ask Michael to take the tunnel back to the fifth dimension.

## the triple grid

this technique is for keeping areas like your home, workplace, or car 
energetically clean. In the Triple Grid technique you ask the specific 
group to set up their level of the grid, designating the geometric 
shape, size and location. Spherical grids are the most stable and easy 
to maintain, so we suggest working with this geometry for most everyday 
applications (such as around your home, car, or workplace).

You will want to renew the grid daily. For convenience, take a crystal 
sphere, any form of quartz will do, and program it with The Triple Grid. 
Then you can just put your hand on the sphere everyday and say, "Renew 
Grids." Reprogram the sphere at least every two weeks.

{{{class="quote"
> "Legions of Michael: grid level one, spherical, my house. 
>
> Destroyer Force Angels: grid level two, spherical, my house. 
>
> Circle Security: grid level three, spherical, my house." 
>
> ^ ^  
>
> "Destroyer Force Angels, please spin your grid, spinning out astral 
entities and astral gates or portals, astral distortions, adverse 
electro-magnetic frequencies, adverse astrological influences, fear, 
disharmony, anger, expectation, frustration, worry, viruses, fungi, 
bacteria, parasites physical and astral, inner dis-harmony and 
abusiveness, enemy patterning, suspicion, distortions to co-creation, 
miscommunication, karmic monads, sadness, scarcity, loneliness, denial 
and projection, martyrdom, anything that distorts the clear 
communication with the Keepers of the Legacy, anything that distorts 
the spiritual signature or clear communication with Spirit.
>
> Spin out anything that hasn't been mentioned in this or any other 
language, but which you know needs to leave the space at this time."
>
> ^ ^  
>
> (Fill in whatever you need, according to your situation).
>
> ^ ^  
>
> When the clearing feels complete, continue with "Reverse spin, same 
stuff." When that feels complete, end with "Stop spin. Thank you."
>
> ^ ^  
>
> "Legions of Michael, infuse your grid with Grace, Purity, Rapture, 
Love, Faith, and Hope Elohim, Mercy, Peace, Liberty, Harmony, Alpha 
Omega, and Victory Elohim.
>
> Infuse with love, intimacy, tolerance, centeredness, clarity, health, 
wealth, clear communication with the Keepers of the Legacy and with 
Spirit, the Heart of the Legacy Unified Chakra, full connection with 
Spirit, following Spirit without hesitation, mastery, sovereignty, 
fierce wholeness, living Heaven, and anything else that hasn't been 
mentioned in this or any other language, but which you know needs to be 
in the space at this time.
>
> ^ ^  
>
> (Fill in whatever you need, according to your situation).
>
> ^ ^  
>
> When the infusion feels complete, end with "Please seal your grid. 
Thank you." 
>
> ^ ^  
>
> "Circle Security, realign your grid to harmonize with upper dimensional 
gridworks. 
>
> Release all distortions and parasites on the grids. 
>
> Infuse frequencies for clearer communication with Spirit. 
>
> Seal grid. 
>
> Thank you."
}}}{:.outdent}
