when we come into the world, we operate from seven basic body chakras 
and five basic bodies — spiritual, mental, emotional, etheric blueprint 
and physical. Here are their old functionings and the shifts they have 
undergone.

## the spiritual body

### Old

The Spiritual body vibrates in the fifth dimension (etheric or Lightbody 
plane) and operates in simultaneous time. It acts as an interface 
between the physical incarnation and the Higher Self or Oversoul. 
Revelatory experiences occur as communications from Spirit and come 
through this body. Often, impulses and information coming through this 
body feel illusory and unreal, and are ignored. As you can see, this 
body’s functions are secondary in a karmic learning game.

### New

The Spiritual body comes into prominence as the Lightbody mutation 
progresses. As you decide and try to follow your Spirit, this body, so 
long under-used, prepares for a stronger connection to the Oversoul. The 
more you look for communications from Spirit, the more this body 
strengthens and fulfils its function as an interface with your Spirit.

## the mental body

### Old

The mental body vibrates in the high fourth dimension (higher astral 
plane) and focuses mostly in the future. It lives in “what if...”. It 
can only describe reality, it cannot experience it. Its main focus is 
survival and its reasoning goes, “If something has kept me alive in the 
past and I continue to do that something, I will stay alive in the 
future.” The mental body hates change. Robotron behavior, like always 
putting your left leg in your pants first, comes out of this body. 

Through defining and defending what is “real,” this body keeps you 
focused strictly into this reality. The mental body usually believes 
that it is in charge of the lifetime and suppresses the emotional body’s 
“irrational” emotions, needs and impulses. It couldn’t care less if you 
are happy or satisfied, only that you keep repeating what you’ve always 
done to survive.

### New

As the mental body merges with the other bodies, it begins to live in 
the Now and vibrates in the fifth dimension. As it shifts its function 
to serving Spirit, it looks for clues from Spirit about what is “real”. 
It allows Spirit to be in charge of a lifetime and focuses Spirit’s 
vaster picture of reality into this plane. For most people, it’s a great 
relief when the mental body finally surrenders to Spirit and merges with 
the other bodies. Often, survival fears and doubts lessen or vanish 
completely. When they do show up, you learn that these feelings and 
thoughts are not for “real”. Fear simply means that the bodies have 
moved out of unity and alignment.

## the emotional body

### Old

The emotional body vibrates at the low fourth dimension (lower astral 
plane) and tends to live in the past. It is the emotional body’s nature 
to form attachments to people, places, objects and ideas. It often feels 
very childlike, as many of the attachments are formed in childhood. It 
reruns emotional triggers from the past. For example, if you were 
scratched by a cat when you were two years old, today you feel fear and 
suspicion when you see a cat. Or, suppose you dropped your milk in the 
lunchroom in second grade and everyone laughed at you. Now you may have 
an aversion to groups or lunchrooms, and when groups of people laugh, 
you may think they’re laughing at you.

You can see how your reaction to something in the Now may have nothing 
to do with what is actually happening. Often, certain emotions are 
suppressed within the emotional body, sublimated as feelings of “I 
need...”. Emotions and expressions are suppressed because they are 
deemed “bad,” “unacceptable,” or “unspiritual”. This causes self karmic 
blocks to expression and strengthens the attachment to outer things.

Often, there is a feeling of “I can’t trust myself,” therefore, 
strengthening the control of the mental body. The emotional body and the 
physical body are what experience life. The physical body experiences 
Now, while the emotional body experiences life through a filter of past 
experiences. The majority of karmic patterning is held within the 
emotional body.

### New

The emotional body merges with the other bodies and vibrates in the 
fifth dimension. All attachments to people, places and ideas release as 
this body begins to function in the Now. The only attachment is to the 
vibration and expressions of Spirit. This often feels like being in love 
with Spirit. People usually find that they become much more emotionally 
expressive. Like a child, when an emotion flows through this body, it is 
simply expressed. When you’re angry, you yell. When you’re sad, you cry. 
When you’re happy, you laugh and smile. This is the gateway of full 
Divine expression. There’s no such thing as a “bad” or “unspiritual” 
emotion. All emotion is in the repertoire of Divine expression.

These three bodies are made up of spinning double tetrahedrons. The 
pattern of motion and spin in each body is unique to the individual 
because these bodies are emanations of the Soul. The rates of spin and 
whether these geometries are slower or stuck, determines the karmic 
experiences you will attract.

In the course of Lightbody mutation, these bodies will first align and 
then merge the tetrahedral geometries into a unified energy field. The 
rates of spin become uniform throughout the unified field. All of the 
stuck geometries release and this field merges with the Oversoul, the 
Christ Oversoul and the I AM presence to fully manifest the expression 
of your Divine nature.

## the etheric blueprint body

### Old

The etheric blueprint body vibrates in the fourth, fifth and sixth 
dimensions and operates in simultaneous time. The fourth-dimensional 
parts of its structure set the rates of spin and the stuck geometries in 
the emotional, mental and spiritual bodies. This body is connected to 
all of your incarnations across time and parallel realities. It 
maintains karmic continuity. It is the switchboard through which the 
soul connects to the physical body and contains the pattern for physical 
death. Its sixth-dimensional structures act as a template for the 
physical body. It’s like a blueprint that the physical body is built 
from. All DNA encodements come from this sixth-dimensional template. All 
physical traits are determined by a person’s DNA, patterned within the 
sixth-dimensional structures first. The fifth-dimensional structures are 
a template of the Lightbody mutation and are dormant. There are 
crystalline formations placed in these fifth-dimensional structures to 
keep this template from manifesting the Lightbody prematurely.

### New

As Higher Light pours down through the etheric blueprint body, it begins 
to activate the fifth-dimensional structures and stimulates the release 
of the fourth-dimensional karmic structures. The gradual release of the 
karmic blueprint shifts the geometries and functions of the emotional, 
mental and spiritual bodies. The sixth-dimensional structures then link 
up to the fifth-dimensional structures instead of these karmic patterns 
and stimulates a mutation of the physical body’s DNA. Gradually, instead 
of acting as a blueprint for dense third-dimensional existence, it 
becomes the blueprint for Lightbody. When the etheric blueprint body 
shifts, all other bodies must change also. As the vibratory rate 
increases in all of the bodies, the crystalline regulator structures 
must be removed. This can be done by someone incarnate or, sometimes, 
the removal is done by your own Spirit. This allows even more Light to 
pour into the bodies and the DNA.

## the physical body

### Old

The physical body vibrates in the third dimension and is always focused 
in the Now. The body is dense, carbon based and has a two strand DNA 
structure. The functioning of the pituitary and pineal glands is 
atrophied causing aging, death and a lack of mufti-dimensional 
perceptions. The physical body is often a focus for self karma. People 
tend to have adversarial relationships with this body, resenting it, 
abusing it and wishing it were different, as well as, trying to control 
or deny ft. Since most karma is experienced through the physical body, 
there is a tendency to punish or blame it for even existing. There is 
little or no concept that the body has a consciousness of its own and 
that its only wish is to serve Spirit.

### New

As Higher Light pours into the etheric blueprint body it triggers the 
production of ATP (Adenosine Triphosphate) in the mitochondria of the 
cells. This chemical takes undifferentiated Light and breaks it into 
Light encodements absorbable by the DNA. This signals the DNA to begin 
a mutation from a double helix to a triple helix. The third strand, 
vibrating fifth-dimensionally in the cells, activates and begins to link 
in with old genetic structure, causing the cells to drop carbon based 
density.

The pituitary and the pineal glands activate and begin to grow. People 
often look like they’re growing younger. These glands link up with the 
etheric crystal structures for the decoding of the Languages of Light. 
The right and left hemispheres of the brain begin to synchronize and new 
synaptic firings are developed. Strong psychic and multi-dimensional 
openings occur as the unused portions of the brain spring into new life.

There is a growing understanding that the body itself has consciousness 
and wishes to serve you and your Spirit. The body is not a “vehicle” but 
a co-creative partner in the Lightbody process. There is also activation 
of the fifth-dimensional bodies of inner and outer Light. These Light 
meridians are called axiatonal, atonal and strallim lines. These new 
meridians form the literal structures of the Lightbody. They facilitate 
regeneration at the cellular levels as well as form linkages to other 
star systems, Lightbody incarnations and the next level of dimensional 
existence.

More and more of the vastness you are as Spirit comes to reside in the 
body, shifting your consciousness into wider pictures of reality. The 
Lightbody process is the bringing of more of the magnificence of who you 
are in the other realms. You become humanity exalted.

The old chakra system has seven major chakras in the body that function 
separately. For the course of the karmic game, the heart chakra has been 
semi-closed so that all chakras would operate at a lower karmic 
functioning. Most human interactions have been based out of the lower 
three chakras.

With Lightbody activation, the heart chakra opens into its higher 
functioning and takes predominance over the others. This forces the 
other six chakras to begin operating at their Higher Divine functioning 
also. Then they all begin to merge into what I call the unified chakra. 
The other seven chakras that exist outside the physical body activate, 
starting with the eighth, nine and tenth chakras. These upper chakras 
merge with the unified chakra and stimulate the emotional, mental and 
Spiritual bodies to unify. As the heart chakra opens to deeper, 
multi-dimensional levels, the more unified the other chakras and the 
energy bodies become. This forms a unified energy field which becomes 
the vehicle for ascension as the Oversoul, the Christ Oversoul and the 
I AM presence descend to merge with it.

