since getting the [Poker 2][poker 2] mechanical keyboard, it has been 
weeks of exploration -- reviewing the merits of various keyboard 
layouts, and examining and unlearning the left hand impositions learned 
from classical touch typing. 

The possibilities of designing a more ergonomic keyboard layout are made 
practical with a programmable keyboard which can be easily configured 
and simply plugged into any computer I happen to be working on. Without, 
I would have stuck with the accessible and effective Colemak layout.

Discovering the [Colemak mod-DH][colemak mod-dh] was revelatory. That 
led to creating an ANSI [Colemak Curl mod][colemak curl-shift] version 
which focused on further balancing and correcting left and right hand 
motions, while facilitating home row reach of keys with reduced index 
and pinkie finger reaches.

It is unusual in design, with the relocation of the 
**left Shift** key, not to mention the right shift of the whole 
(modified) Colemak layout altogether -- I don't expect adoption of this 
scheme. But it has been such an ergonomically natural transition, with 
significantly reduced travel for the fingers, that it is impossible for 
me to go back to layouts I had expected would be difficult to lose.

The left hand curl was a surprisingly simple unlearning of the subtle 
(but cumulatively stressful) wrist twist that is required to type bottom 
row characters. And the right shift of the overall keyboard layout, 
while seemingly drastic, maintains the important Colemak fingering 
relationships.

I think I have finally fine tuned the placement of the left hand 
**equal**, **hyphen** (minus), **slash** and **backslash** symbols 
 column cluster, both aesthetically and ergonomically, to this left hand 
 right hand layout..

<code>^ ^ ^ ^ `~ ^ = 1 2 3 4 5 6 ^ ^ 7 8 9 0 [^ ^ ]</code>
`^ ^ ^ ^ Tab^ ^ - Q W F P B ^ ^ J L U Y ; '^ ^ Del`
`^ ^ ^ ^  Esc^ ^ / A R S T G ^ ^ M N E I O^ ^ Enter`
`^ ^ ^ ^ \^ ^ Shift X C D V Z ^ ^ K H , .^ ^ Shift`
<code>Ctrl^ ^ Win^ ^ Alt^ ^ ^  Space^ ^ ^  Backspace^ ^ Fn^ ^ Pn^ ^ Ctrl</code>

The new **backslash** position doesn't look out of place as much as 
I had expected, being almost in the mirror position of its former 
placement on the right. The symmetry and symbol keys look "correct" (for 
a *nix and Vim user) and are easily reached. 

This is the current keyboard layout that works enormously well for me. 
I say "current" because for weeks I was certain each layout change would 
be the last! The Poker 2 keyboard. Cherry MX Reds. Colemak. Curl mod 
tweaks. A [geekhackers'](https://geekhack.org/) nirvana..


