just when you think you're done, there is always another idea to try 
out! The [Colemak 
forum](https://forum.colemak.com/topic/2158-dreymars-big-bag-of-keyboard-tricks-usb2usb-edition/) 
has long advocated a wide or extended key layout to further enhance the 
ergonomics of the Colemak layout by remapping the keys such that the 
left and right hand positions are shifted out by one column. Using a 60% 
keyboard and radically right shifting the whole layout one column so as 
to be able to achieve [[shift-mod layout|left and right hand fingering 
symmetry]] did not permit increasing the left and right hand separation.

All my previous [Planck 
posts](http://thedarnedestthing.com/search?query=planck) reflected 
variations on my particular Colemak Shift-DH mod. A recent poster 
soliciting reviews of his proposed wide QWERTY layout inspired 
revisiting the idea. The 40% Planck in a conventional layout provides 
for a single pinkie and index finger extension -- very symmetrical and 
ergonomic. By remapping the outer key assignments and shifting the 
logical halves of the layout one column towards the edges of the 
keyboard, eliminating any pinkie finger extension, each index finger 
inherits a double column extension in the middle of the keyboard -- more 
than even the wide Colemak mod above -- which, I have always been 
reluctant to do.

However, reducing the range of the generally weaker pinkie finger at the 
expense of increasing the stretch for the stronger index finger does 
garner a significant benefit. Namely, increasing hand separation and, 
thus, the geometry of one's arms and shoulders and, more importantly, 
wrist angle. This is very tangibly noticeable and superior.

== wide colemak ==

the inserted double middle column has been assigned lessor used symbols 
and punctuation. Row assignments and even the set of characters may 
change (not unsurprisingly, given my history) during usage..

![Stretch Colemak DH 
layout](/images/keyboard-layout-stretch-colemak.jpg)

[ljust]Note the double tap **Double Quote** key. It's the little details 
of the Planck.

== numeric keypad ==



![Stretch Colemak DH 
layout](/images/keyboard-layout-stretch-numeric.jpg)



