[dotfiles][] are the big addition to this site. They reside, of course, 
on [github](https://github.com/sdothum/dotfiles), and have been a long 
time coming -- the recent interest and requests for the [bspwm][] and 
Conky configurations was the final nudge I needed.

I have been a consumer of github content for a long time and track a lot 
of packages from there. This change in status to a more participatory 
one, undoubtedly, will lead to more use of the service -- especially as 
a secondary repository for those important build scripts and server 
configurations.

One thing that is becoming apparent, is that the [comment][comments] 
mechanism may be turning out to be an impediment rather than 
facilitating exchange -- as people have been going out of their way to 
contact me directly versus using the _comment_ link. I am not sure what 
to do about that or what people think about the current mechanism. 

I do not intend to implement the standard practice of registration (with 
email address verification) or the more annoying _captcha_ mechanisms 
which become a deterrent in themselves. Clarifying the security and 
privacy of individual's email addresses needs to be reiterated. The 
original design was to faciliate ease of use, for the user and at the 
system end -- I can vouch for the efficacy of the spam filtering 
mechanism, without which, has polluted a lot of other web sites.

The next short while should see a lot of activity on the github account 
as I fine tune what actually needs to be there versus the directory 
snapshots which originally included deprecated scripts and source code 
repositories. And this, no doubt, will lead to some rethinking about how 
the core configurations might be reorganized on my computers..
