changes continue. Lots of them, both hardware and software. New 
[Poker 2][keyboards#poker-2] keyboard, stabilized overclocked 
motherboard.. and, not least of which, a new window manager, 
[herbstluftwm][].

The look of the colophon section, in particular, has changed 
significantly, for anyone perusing code. I still eschew the convention 
of scrolling code block windows, just because I like to see all the code 
at a glance (so I can catch typos) -- but, hopefully, it is better 
formatted and highlighted now.

The result of all these changes is that corrections and amendments have 
been made to the site. As stated elsewhere, the nature of the site 
engine is that any amendments to content update the chronological order 
of information presented by the site. Sometimes, material will be pushed 
out, and amended for a time afterwards -- not exactly how a publication 
works normally, but this whole site is probably the furthest from 
normal..

The many small editing changes, in particular, to the colophon section 
has resulted in many articles' chronological order being altered, even 
for minor alterations -- there is a mechanism built into the site to 
accommodate such actions but forgot to take a snapshot, doh! So anyone 
following the coding side of things, spot the changes, if you can 
-- there were no coding corrections, though..

So, that's it. There was a bit of push to get some technical content 
written up, more to test the site changes, than anything. I hope to 
return to the primary purpose of the site, the nature of our collective 
[story][about the story]..


